Please see the Single User License Agreement and Limited Warranty in the
printed manual for more information on the acceptable use of Rave 4.0. The
following Agreement applies to redistributable files and the end-user
distribution license.

Corporate Distribution License Agreement
----------------------------------------

The following applies only to those who purchased the Corporate Distribution
License with Rave 4.0.

If you have purchased the Corporate Distribution License with Rave 4.0, you
can include and interface with the end-user visual report designer files
(located in \RAVE4\REDIST) with your application.  Except for the files in the
\RAVE4\REDIST directory, no other files in the \RAVE4 directory (or its
subdirectories) may be distributed with your application.

THE END-USER VISUAL DESIGNER MAY NOT BE DISTRIBUTED, IN MODIFIED OR UNMODIFIED
FORM, AS PART OF ANY APPLICATION PROGRAM OR OTHER SOFTWARE THAT IS A
LIBRARY-TYPE PRODUCT, DEVELOPMENT TOOL OR OPERATING SYSTEM, OR THAT MAY BE
COMPETITIVE WITH OR USED IN LIEU OF RAVE, WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN
PERMISSION OF NEVRONA DESIGNS.

The end-user visual report designer is intended to be used with a specific
application and that application's specific data.  The end-user visual
report designer must be included with an application in such a way that it
CANNOT BE USED AS A GENERIC VISUAL REPORT DESIGNER on data that is not
actively, purposefully and specifically used by that application.

There is no runtime royalty charge for including the end-user visual report
designer with applications beyond the initial purchase price of the Corporate
Distribution License.  The end-user visual report designer may be distributed
with any application that is owned or maintained by the holder of the
Corporate Distribution License and may be distributed with unlimited
quantities of those applications.