Deploying [Embedding] applications developed with PDAC
======================================================

With a few variations regarding the Borland and other runtime libraries,
there are two basic ways to build PDAC applications for deployment to
end users: using "runtime packages" or statically linking the PDAC
libraries into the application's executable file.  C++ Builder also
offers the option of dynamic or statically linking the Borland runtime
library.

NOTE that the SDK-supplied file drm.dll (from the \PVSW\bin directory
after an SDK installation) must be installed into the path in all
deployment configurations, and either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client or a
Pervasive.SQL engine (Server, Workgroup, or Workstation) must be
properly installed on the target computer for a PDAC application to run.


Deciding whether to Use Runtime Packages
----------------------------------------

Using runtime packages has several advantages.  It provides the smallest
executable possible; this can be important where the executable or
updates must be downloaded or transfered over slow links.  This option
allows sharing of the PDAC and Borland runtime binaries; this can save
considerable disk space and memory in environments with many Borland and
PDAC applications.

A disadvantage is that more files must be distributed and kept current,
and the shared files can be vulnerable to third party installations that
install incorrect versions of them in shared subdirectories.  If runtime
packages are not used, only the application must be deployed; the PDAC
libraries are statically linked into the executable, which will be
correspondingly larger.

To use runtime packages, the developer must deploy both the
application's executable and the appropriate PDAC libraries (from the
"redist" subdirectories in the PDAC installation directories), as well
as any Borland or other runtime libraries (borlndmm.dll, found in the
compiler's "bin" directory, is often needed) to end users.



-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Building and Deployment Instructions for C++ Builder 3:

In the C++ Builder IDE, set the appropriate options as follows:

  From the Menu, select Project | Options

    Click the "Linker" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link the Borland runtime
    library, make sure "Use dynamic RTL" is checked.  If you want to
    statically link the runtime library into the application's
    executable, make sure the option is unchecked.

    Click the "Packages" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link with the PDAC libraries at
    runtime, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is checked, and
    add the appropriate PDAC packages to the edit box's list, as follows:

      [If the PDAC packages were added to the Build list at
      installation, this step is not necessary.]

      If the application uses the components on the left column of the
      following table, the packages (.BPI FILES) from the right column
      must appear in the build list.

      Components Used             Packages Required
      ---------------             -----------------

      [Transactional]
      TPvSession,                 PvCommonB3, BtvDirectB3
      TPvDatabase,
      TPvTable,
      TPvBatchMove

      TwwPvTable                  PvCommonB3, BtvDirect_ipB3


      [Relational]
      TPvSQLSession,              PvCommonB3, SQLDirectB3
      TPvSQLDatabase,
      TPvQuery,
      TPvUpdateSQL,
      TPvSQLStoredProc

      TwwPvQuery,                 PvCommonB3, SQLDirect_ipB3
      TwwPvSQLStoredProc


      To select packages, click Add, then Browse, and select the
      packages from the \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\BCB3\LIB directory (for a
      default installation).  All the packages may be selected at
      once.

      NOTE that if the PDAC packages are not added to the list, they
      will be compiled into the executable and the shared libraries will
      not be used, even if the box is checked.

    To statically link the PDAC libraries into the application's
    executable, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is unchecked.




If "Build with runtime packages" is checked at compile time, the
following libraries must be installed when the application is deployed,
in addition to the application itself, drm.dll, and any other packages
or DLLs it requires:

  From \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\BCB3\REDIST, if their respective .BPI files
  are in the package build list:

    PvCommonB3.bpl
    BtvDirectB3.bpl
    BtvDirect_ipB3.bpl
    SQLDirectB3.bpl
    SQLDirect_ipB3.bpl

  These files may be installed in the same subdirectory as
  the application's executable, but Pervasive recommends placing them
  in the target machine's path so they may be shared by other
  applications.  \PVSW\bin is a good choice, on computers where it is
  the primary Pervasive executable directory.

In addition, the C++ Builder - PDAC application will require an
installation of either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 engine (Server, WorkGroup,
or Workstation) or a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client and a remote server
appropriately installed and configured.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Building and Deployment Instructions for C++ Builder 4:

In the C++ Builder IDE, set the appropriate options as follows:

  From the Menu, select Project | Options

    Click the "Linker" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link the Borland runtime
    library, make sure "Use dynamic RTL" is checked.  If you want to
    statically link the runtime library into the application's
    executable, make sure the option is unchecked.

    Click the "Packages" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link with the PDAC libraries at
    runtime, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is checked, and
    add the appropriate PDAC packages to the edit box's list, as follows:

      [If the PDAC packages were added to the Build list at
      installation, this step is not necessary.]

      If the application uses the components on the left column of the
      following table, the packages (.BPI FILES) from the right column
      must appear in the build list.

      Components Used             Packages Required
      ---------------             -----------------

      [Transactional]
      TPvSession,                 PvCommonB4, BtvDirectB4
      TPvDatabase,
      TPvTable,
      TPvBatchMove

      TwwPvTable                  PvCommonB4, BtvDirect_ipB4


      [Relational]
      TPvSQLSession,              PvCommonB4, SQLDirectB4
      TPvSQLDatabase,
      TPvQuery,
      TPvUpdateSQL,
      TPvSQLStoredProc

      TwwPvQuery,                 PvCommonB4, SQLDirect_ipB4
      TwwPvSQLStoredProc


      To select packages, click Add, then Browse, and select the
      packages from the \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\BCB4\LIB directory (for a
      default installation).  All the packages may be selected at
      once.

      NOTE that if the PDAC packages are not added to the list, they
      will be compiled into the executable and the shared libraries will
      not be used, even if the box is checked.

    To statically link the PDAC libraries into the application's
    executable, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is unchecked.




If "Build with runtime packages" is checked at compile time, the
following libraries must be installed when the application is deployed,
in addition to the application itself, drm.dll, and any other packages
or DLLs it requires:

  From \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\BCB4\REDIST, if their respective .BPI files
  are in the package build list:

    PvCommonB4.bpl
    BtvDirectB4.bpl
    BtvDirect_ipB4.bpl
    SQLDirectB4.bpl
    SQLDirect_ipB4.bpl

  These files may be installed in the same subdirectory as
  the application's executable, but Pervasive recommends placing them
  in the target machine's path so they may be shared by other
  applications.  \PVSW\bin is a good choice, on computers where it is
  the primary Pervasive executable directory.

In addition, the C++ Builder - PDAC application will require an
installation of either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 engine (Server, WorkGroup,
or Workstation) or a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client and a remote server
appropriately installed and configured.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Building and Deployment Instructions for C++ Builder 5:

In the C++ Builder IDE, set the appropriate options as follows:

  From the Menu, select Project | Options

    Click the "Linker" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link the Borland runtime
    library, make sure "Use dynamic RTL" is checked.  If you want to
    statically link the runtime library into the application's
    executable, make sure the option is unchecked.

    Click the "Packages" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link with the PDAC libraries at
    runtime, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is checked, and
    add the appropriate PDAC packages to the edit box's list, as follows:

      [If the PDAC packages were added to the Build list at
      installation, this step is not necessary.]

      If the application uses the components on the left column of the
      following table, the packages (.BPI FILES) from the right column
      must appear in the build list.

      Components Used             Packages Required
      ---------------             -----------------

      [Transactional]
      TPvSession,                 PvCommonB5, BtvDirectB5
      TPvDatabase,
      TPvTable,
      TPvBatchMove

      TwwPvTable                  PvCommonB5, BtvDirect_ipB5


      [Relational]
      TPvSQLSession,              PvCommonB5, SQLDirectB5
      TPvSQLDatabase,
      TPvQuery,
      TPvUpdateSQL,
      TPvSQLStoredProc

      TwwPvQuery,                 PvCommonB5, SQLDirect_ipB5
      TwwPvSQLStoredProc


      To select packages, click Add, then Browse, and select the
      packages from the \PVSW\SDK2000\PDAC\BCB5\LIB directory (for a
      default installation).  All the packages may be selected at
      once.

      NOTE that if the PDAC packages are not added to the list, they
      will be compiled into the executable and the shared libraries will
      not be used, even if the box is checked.

    To statically link the PDAC libraries into the application's
    executable, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is unchecked.




If "Build with runtime packages" is checked at compile time, the
following libraries must be installed when the application is deployed,
in addition to the application itself, drm.dll, and any other packages
or DLLs it requires:

  From \PVSW\SDK2000\PDAC\BCB5\REDIST, if their respective .BPI files
  are in the package build list:

    PvCommonB5.bpl
    BtvDirectB5.bpl
    BtvDirect_ipB5.bpl
    SQLDirectB5.bpl
    SQLDirect_ipB5.bpl

  These files may be installed in the same subdirectory as
  the application's executable, but Pervasive recommends placing them
  in the target machine's path so they may be shared by other
  applications.  \PVSW\bin is a good choice, on computers where it is
  the primary Pervasive executable directory.

In addition, the C++ Builder - PDAC application will require an
installation of either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 engine (Server, WorkGroup,
or Workstation) or a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client and a remote server
appropriately installed and configured.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Building and Deployment Instructions for Delphi 3:

In the Delphi IDE, set the appropriate options as follows:

  From the Menu, select Project | Options

    Click the "Packages" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link with the PDAC libraries at
    runtime, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is checked, and
    add the appropriate PDAC packages to the edit box's list, as follows:

      [If the PDAC packages were added to the Build list at
      installation, this step is not necessary.]

      If the application uses the components on the left column of the
      following table, the packages (.DCP FILES) from the right column
      must appear in the build list.

      Components Used             Packages Required
      ---------------             -----------------

      [Transactional]
      TPvSession,                 PvCommonD3, BtvDirectD3
      TPvDatabase,
      TPvTable,
      TPvBatchMove

      TwwPvTable                  PvCommonD3, BtvDirect_ipD3


      [Relational]
      TPvSQLSession,              PvCommonD3, SQLDirectD3
      TPvSQLDatabase,
      TPvQuery,
      TPvUpdateSQL,
      TPvSQLStoredProc

      TwwPvQuery,                 PvCommonD3, SQLDirect_ipD3
      TwwPvSQLStoredProc


      To select packages, click Add, then Browse, and select the
      packages from the \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi3\LIB directory (for a
      default installation).  All the packages may be selected at
      once.

      NOTE that if the PDAC packages are not added to the list, they
      will be compiled into the executable and the shared libraries will
      not be used, even if the box is checked.

    To statically link the PDAC libraries into the application's
    executable, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is unchecked.




If "Build with runtime packages" is checked at compile time, the
following libraries must be installed when the application is deployed,
in addition to the application itself, drm.dll, and any other packages
or DLLs it requires:

  From \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi3\REDIST, if their respective .DCP files
  are in the package build list:

    PvCommonD3.dpl
    BtvDirectD3.dpl
    BtvDirect_ipD3.dpl
    SQLDirectD3.dpl
    SQLDirect_ipD3.dpl

  These files may be installed in the same subdirectory as
  the application's executable, but Pervasive recommends placing them
  in the target machine's path so they may be shared by other
  applications.  \PVSW\bin is a good choice, on computers where it is
  the primary Pervasive executable directory.

In addition, the Delphi - PDAC application will require an
installation of either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 engine (Server, WorkGroup,
or Workstation) or a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client and a remote server
appropriately installed and configured.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Building and Deployment Instructions for Delphi 4:

In the Delphi IDE, set the appropriate options as follows:

  From the Menu, select Project | Options

    Click the "Packages" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link with the PDAC libraries at
    runtime, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is checked, and
    add the appropriate PDAC packages to the edit box's list, as follows:

      [If the PDAC packages were added to the Build list at
      installation, this step is not necessary.]

      If the application uses the components on the left column of the
      following table, the packages (.DCP FILES) from the right column
      must appear in the build list.

      Components Used             Packages Required
      ---------------             -----------------

      [Transactional]
      TPvSession,                 PvCommonD4, BtvDirectD4
      TPvDatabase,
      TPvTable,
      TPvBatchMove

      TwwPvTable                  PvCommonD4, BtvDirect_ipD4


      [Relational]
      TPvSQLSession,              PvCommonD4, SQLDirectD4
      TPvSQLDatabase,
      TPvQuery,
      TPvUpdateSQL,
      TPvSQLStoredProc

      TwwPvQuery,                 PvCommonD4, SQLDirect_ipD4
      TwwPvSQLStoredProc


      To select packages, click Add, then Browse, and select the
      packages from the \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi4\LIB directory (for a
      default installation).  All the packages may be selected at
      once.

      NOTE that if the PDAC packages are not added to the list, they
      will be compiled into the executable and the shared libraries will
      not be used, even if the box is checked.

    To statically link the PDAC libraries into the application's
    executable, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is unchecked.




If "Build with runtime packages" is checked at compile time, the
following libraries must be installed when the application is deployed,
in addition to the application itself, drm.dll, and any other packages
or DLLs it requires:

  From \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi4\REDIST, if their respective .DCP files
  are in the package build list:

    PvCommonD4.bpl
    BtvDirectD4.bpl
    BtvDirect_ipD4.bpl
    SQLDirectD4.bpl
    SQLDirect_ipD4.bpl

  These files may be installed in the same subdirectory as
  the application's executable, but Pervasive recommends placing them
  in the target machine's path so they may be shared by other
  applications.  \PVSW\bin is a good choice, on computers where it is
  the primary Pervasive executable directory.

In addition, the Delphi - PDAC application will require an
installation of either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 engine (Server, WorkGroup,
or Workstation) or a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client and a remote server
appropriately installed and configured.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Building and Deployment Instructions for Delphi 5:

In the Delphi IDE, set the appropriate options as follows:

  From the Menu, select Project | Options

    Click the "Packages" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link with the PDAC libraries at
    runtime, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is checked, and
    add the appropriate PDAC packages to the edit box's list, as follows:

      [If the PDAC packages were added to the Build list at
      installation, this step is not necessary.]

      If the application uses the components on the left column of the
      following table, the packages (.DCP FILES) from the right column
      must appear in the build list.

      Components Used             Packages Required
      ---------------             -----------------

      [Transactional]
      TPvSession,                 PvCommonD5, BtvDirectD5
      TPvDatabase,
      TPvTable,
      TPvBatchMove

      TwwPvTable                  PvCommonD5, BtvDirect_ipD5


      [Relational]
      TPvSQLSession,              PvCommonD5, SQLDirectD5
      TPvSQLDatabase,
      TPvQuery,
      TPvUpdateSQL,
      TPvSQLStoredProc

      TwwPvQuery,                 PvCommonD5, SQLDirect_ipD5
      TwwPvSQLStoredProc


      To select packages, click Add, then Browse, and select the
      packages from the \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi5\LIB directory (for a
      default installation).  All the packages may be selected at
      once.

      NOTE that if the PDAC packages are not added to the list, they
      will be compiled into the executable and the shared libraries will
      not be used, even if the box is checked.

    To statically link the PDAC libraries into the application's
    executable, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is unchecked.




If "Build with runtime packages" is checked at compile time, the
following libraries must be installed when the application is deployed,
in addition to the application itself, drm.dll, and any other packages
or DLLs it requires:

  From \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi5\REDIST, if their respective .DCP files
  are in the package build list:

    PvCommonD5.bpl
    BtvDirectD5.bpl
    BtvDirect_ipD5.bpl
    SQLDirectD5.bpl
    SQLDirect_ipD5.bpl

  These files may be installed in the same subdirectory as
  the application's executable, but Pervasive recommends placing them
  in the target machine's path so they may be shared by other
  applications.  \PVSW\bin is a good choice, on computers where it is
  the primary Pervasive executable directory.

In addition, the Delphi - PDAC application will require an
installation of either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 engine (Server, WorkGroup,
or Workstation) or a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client and a remote server
appropriately installed and configured.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Building and Deployment Instructions for Delphi 6:

In the Delphi IDE, set the appropriate options as follows:

  From the Menu, select Project | Options

    Click the "Packages" tab.

    To have the application dynamically link with the PDAC libraries at
    runtime, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is checked, and
    add the appropriate PDAC packages to the edit box's list, as follows:

      [If the PDAC packages were added to the Build list at
      installation, this step is not necessary.]

      If the application uses the components on the left column of the
      following table, the packages (.DCP FILES) from the right column
      must appear in the build list.

      Components Used             Packages Required
      ---------------             -----------------

      [Transactional]
      TPvSession,                 pc200r60, pb200r60
      TPvDatabase,
      TPvTable,
      TPvBatchMove,
      TwwPvTable


      [Relational]
      TPvSQLSession,              pc200r60, ps200r60
      TPvSQLDatabase,
      TPvQuery,
      TPvUpdateSQL,
      TPvSQLStoredProc,
      TwwPvQuery,
      TwwPvSQLStoredProc


      To select packages, click Add, then Browse, and select the
      packages from the \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi6\LIB directory (for a
      default installation).  All the packages may be selected at
      once.

      NOTE that if the PDAC packages are not added to the list, they
      will be compiled into the executable and the shared libraries will
      not be used, even if the box is checked.

    To statically link the PDAC libraries into the application's
    executable, make sure "Build with runtime packages" is unchecked.




If "Build with runtime packages" is checked at compile time, the
following libraries must be installed when the application is deployed,
in addition to the application itself, drm.dll, and any other packages
or DLLs it requires:

  From \PVSW\SDK\PDAC\Delphi6\REDIST, if their respective .DCP files
  are in the package build list:

    pc200r60.bpl
    pb200r60.bpl
    ps200r60.bpl

  These files may be installed in the same subdirectory as
  the application's executable, but Pervasive recommends placing them
  in the target machine's path so they may be shared by other
  applications.  \PVSW\bin is a good choice, on computers where it is
  the primary Pervasive executable directory.

In addition, the Delphi - PDAC application will require an
installation of either a Pervasive.SQL 2000 engine (Server, WorkGroup,
or Workstation) or a Pervasive.SQL 2000 client and a remote server
appropriately installed and configured.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
